feat(curriculum): add Working with Node Core Modules lessons (#65008)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lecture-working-with-node-core-modules/695cc6a5eefd305381ec90bc.md

  fs.writeFileSync("filePath", "content", "utf8");
  console.log("File written to!");
} catch (err) {
  console.error("Error:", err);
}
```

Note that using any of the methods synchronously is blocking. In other words, your program will stop running and wait until the operation is finished before moving on to the next line of code.

For quick scripts, small projects, or one-off tasks, synchronous methods are probably fine. But in real world applications, blocking I/O (input/output) becomes a problem because it can freeze other parts of your app while Node waits for the file system to finish its operations. That slows things down and hurts performance and user experience.

That's why asynchronous methods exist. They let the rest of your program continue running while Node handles file operations in the background. Traditionally, this used callbacks, but those can get messy fast as your app grows.

Promises and `async/await` solve that problem. They are still non-blocking, but the code reads like normal synchronous code and is much easier to maintain. 

For this reason, the promises-based approach is generally preferred today, and that's what we'll use in the rest of this lesson.

> The `writeFile()` method is the method that lets you write to an existing file. If the file doesn't exist, it creates it in the current directory, then writes the specified content to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `writeFile()` method lets you write to an existing file. If the file doesn't exist, it creates it in the current directory, then writes the specified content to it.
```

```js
const fs = require("fs/promises");

async function deleteFile() {
  try {
    await fs.unlink("article.ts");
    console.log("File deleted successfully!");
  } catch (err) {
    console.error("Error deleting file:", err);
  }
}

deleteFile();
```

If the file does not exist, you get an error message similar to this:

```bash
Error deleting file: Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, unlink 'article.ts'
```

If it exists, the file is deleted, and you get the success message you set.

# --questions--

## --text--

What is the main purpose of the Node `fs` module?

## --answers--

To create dynamic HTML pages in the browser.

### --feedback--

Think about how you handle files like text documents or folders directly from Node.js.

---

To connect Node.js to a database.

### --feedback--

Think about how you handle files like text documents or folders directly from Node.js.

---

To interact with the file system for file and folder CRUD operations.

---

To manage Node.js package installations.

### --feedback--

Think about how you handle files like text documents or folders directly from Node.js.

## --video-solution--

3

## --text--

> Which method in the Node `fs` module lets you write to an existing file, and if the file doesn't exist, creates it in the current directory with the specified content?

Reviewer: Reworded this a bit:
```suggestion
Which method in the Node fs module lets you write content to a file, creating it if it doesn't exist?
```

---
id: 695cc6a5eefd305381ec90bc

> title: What is the fs module and how does it work?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: What Is the Fs Module and How Does It Work?
```
